# Daily-Algorithmic-Trading
This is an example of advanced algorithmic trading based on machine learning, utilizing novel trading indicators as features;  
It utilizes an ensamble model comprising of a Random Forest, K-Nearest-Neighbors and a feed-forward Neural Network to classify future price movements for 1 asset (in this example btc, but any asset can be used);
It also includes examples of adding a Transformer model to the ensamble, performing hyperparameter tunning, and sending automated buy/sell orders based on the model output using Alpaca API; 
I belive the most interesting and noteworthy aspect of this project is not actually the ensamble model itself, but the features used, which is a collection of novel trading indicators and a new way of utlizing already existing trading indicators;
Bellow is a list of features used:
a) rsi_pca --> the Relative Strength Index (RSI) is one of the most well known technical indicators. It has only 1 parameter that must be chosen before calcualting the RSI. In the literature, this parameter varies quite a lot with values as low as 2 and as high as 30. 
   Instead of choosing a random value for the RSI parameter, I calculate a number of RSIs using a range of parameter values between 2 and 24 (since I am using hourely data 24 seems to make sense for the upper bound) and than I perform Principal Component Analysis to reduce the dimensionality. 
   The first 2 principal components explain more than 90% of the variation; the basic idea is that all the information captured by the 23 RSIs can be captured almost entierly by just 2 variables and therfore one is not constraint to choose a random parameter when calculating the RSI
b) rvi_pca --> the Relative Volatility Index (RVI) its a similar measure to the RSI, but instead it measures volatility in a finacial asset instead of price momentum. While the RSI measures the magnitude of price changes, the RVI focuses on the standard deviation of price changes, making it a more suitable tool 
   for gauging market volatility, and is therfore a good complement to the RSI. I use the same idea and strategy as in a) to capture the infomartion from numerious RVIs into just 2 variables. In practice, I recommand using a different dimensionality reduction techinque for a) and b) to reduce possible correlation 
   between the components
c) adx_pca --> I apply the same stratecy as in a) and b) to the Average Directional Movment Index (ADX). The ADX is a trend indicator, while RSI and RVI are momentum and volatility indicators respetively, therfore the model includes a representative from each of the 3 major "families" of indicators. 
   There are many other established indicators to choose from, and some could perform even better than the 3 I choose. 
d) pos and neg --> These 2 novel trading indicators are constructed using ideas from Graph Theory. The idea is to take advantage of the many techniques available in Graph Theory to exploit information inherent in financial time series. Graph Theory is not a common researcha area with financial traders 
   and can therfore hide some untapped information. First, I convert the closing price of the given asset (a ts) into a Natural Visibility Graph. To create the indicators, I apply the average-shortest-path-lenght algoritham in a rolling-window to the Visility Graph. "pos" represents the visibility graph with the 
   lines between nodes above the price, while "neg" has the lines between nodes below the price. 
e) rai_s --> Relative Asynchrnous Index is a measure of Time Reversability. It was proposed in this paper https://www.proquest.com/docview/2259436625?sourcetype=Scholarly%20Journals and uses Horizontal Visibility Graphs to calcualte it. We can create a technical indicator by applying the Relative Asynchronous Index 
   in a rolling window
f) pe --> this trading indicator and the next one make use of Ordinal Patterns, which provide a method to measure dependencies between time series (in contrast to classical correlation measures). More info here: https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.12883 
   Permutation Entropy measure the complexity of the input (ts) by looking at the distribution of ordinal patterns. Permutation Entropy can be an indicator if calculated in a sliding window and it can be viewd as a  measure of the current complexity of the market. https://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/15/10/4392
g) ptsr --> this indicator is inspired by this paper https://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/20/9/665. It is another measure of Time Reversability, and once again we can create a technical indicator out of it by applying it to a rolling window. 
h) vs_indicator --> this indicator models the relationsip between the price range and volume using an OLS regression in a fairly large rolling window. The classic theroy sugest that volume and range are proportioanl, and therfore when this relatinship breaks there might be a posibility of arbitrage. 
   Generally, when the indicator has a large (positive or negative) value a change in trend is likely to occur. More sophisiticating approaches can be used to further test this idea in the future.   
